>> Ancient footprints buried
for thousands of years are
revealing their true
date of creation,
thousands of years
earlier than we thought,
shaking up the
conventional timeline.
Could this validate Hopi oral
histories of ancient ant men?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
White Sands National
Park in New Mexico
today is mostly chalky
white desert and sand dunes.
But thousands of years ago, this
was a temperate zone centered
around the massive
ancient Lake Otero, filled
with flourishing
plants, wildlife,
and now we can confirm, humans.
Ancient footprints,
originally discovered in 2009,
have been radiocarbon dated to
be from 21,000 to 23,000 years
ago.
Previous estimates of human
habitation in this area
were 13,000 to 16,000 years ago.
Ancient stone tools footprints
and rock layers are difficult,
if not impossible, to date,
but scientists have found seeds
from ancient spiral ditch grass
mingled with some footprints.
Those seeds were able
to be carbon dated,
proving humans were in the area
and thriving thousands of years
earlier than previously thought.
Jack Cary, researcher and
author of "Paranormal Planet"
on the significance
of this discovery.
>> This is a huge point to
shove back human migration.
That means that
you're going to have
to rewrite everything
that's associated
in our science related
to human migration.
That is a huge problem
for our anthropologists
and for accepted
science as a whole.
As investigators into
ancient mysteries,
this is one of
the biggest things
that we could ever
discover because now, we
have absolute, inarguable
proof that humans were there
at this exact period of time.
>> Why are investigators of
ancient mysteries so excited
about this find?
>> This is the same
area, the same place,
and the same time that the
Hopi Indians claimed that
the so-called Ant People
took them underground during
a massive global cataclysm
because the world basically
caught fire, according
to their ancient,
historical oral traditions.
And this same event,
strangely enough,
can be found in
the Book of Enoch
when he describes
a cometary impact.
All of this would date back to
around the same time period.
And we have to remember
that in Hopi language,
"Anu" means ant and
"Naki" means friend.
So the word Anunnaki to the
Hopi means "ant friends."
And it was these ant friends
who twice took them underground,
the second being when the
last Ice Age actually melted,
creating a global flood
that has been recorded
in ancient histories worldwide.
Now, we have
radiocarbon dated proof
that there was, in fact, human
habitation in the right place,
at the right time to make
those oral histories viable.
>> What do we know about the
area where the footprints were
found?
>> Along with these
human footprints,
they've also discovered quite
a bit of Ice Age megafauna
in the form of footprints, in
the form of mammoth prints,
saber tooth cat, and quite a
few other animals dating to that
same time period.
So this was an area
for these people
that had a readily available
and numerous food source.
There was plenty
of water available.
And most importantly,
this appears
to have been a
temperate climate zone.
For many researchers into
the ancient mysteries,
they will tell you that
ice ages are cyclical,
that that is one of the great
secrets of the mystery schools,
and that that was
encoded in a lot
of ancient, ancient cultures.
And here, we have an example
of a major global Ice Age
occurring and people still
being able to survive
in the southwestern part
of the United States.
That's valuable information.
>> How does this finding affect
what we thought we knew about
the past, and how will it
impact the study of archaeology
in the future?
>> It's going to change a
lot of the encrusted dogma
that's in our established
circles of academia.
They're going to have to accept
the fact that this migration
took place at this point.
They cannot argue against it.
And therefore,
they're going to have
to rewrite a large portion of
what they believe to be true.
And it's in these gaps
that we as investigators
into ancient mysteries believe
that we have the information
to fill in, so it's
an exciting time.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]